---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "jans_app_configuration Resource - terraform-provider-jans"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Resource for managing all global application configurations for the Janssen Server. This resource cannot be created or deleted, only imported and updated.
---

# jans_app_configuration (Resource)

Resource for managing all global application configurations for the Janssen Server. This resource cannot be created or deleted, only imported and updated.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "jans_app_configuration" "global" {
  
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `access_evaluation_allow_basic_client_authorization` (Boolean) Boolean value true allows basic client authorization.
- `access_evaluation_discovery_cache_lifetime_in_minutes` (Number) The cache lifetime in minutes of the access evaluation discovery.
- `access_evaluation_script_name` (String) Name of the access evaluation script.
- `access_token_lifetime` (Number) The lifetime of the short-lived Access Token. Example: 3600
- `access_token_signing_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the access token signing algorithms (alg values) supported by the OP. 
							One of "none", "HS256", "HS384", "HS512", "RS256", "RS384", "RS512", "ES256", "ES384", 
							"ES512", "PS256", "PS384", "PS512"
- `acr_mappings` (Map of String) A map of ACR mappings. Example: { "acr1": "script1", "acr2": "script2" }
- `acr_to_agama_consent_flow_mapping` (Map of String) A map of ACR to agama consent flow mapping. Example: { "acr1": "agama1", "acr2": "agama2" }
- `acr_to_consent_script_mapping` (Map of String) A map of ACR to consent script mapping. Example: { "acr1": "script1", "acr2": "script2" }
- `acr_to_consent_script_name_mapping` (Map of String) A map of ACR to consent script name mapping. Example: { "acr1": "script1", "acr2": "script2" }
- `active_session_authorization_scope` (String) Authorization Scope for active session.
- `agama_configuration` (Block List, Max: 1) Engine Config which offers an alternative way to build authentication flows in Janssen server (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--agama_configuration))
- `all_response_types_supported` (List of String) List of all response types supported.
- `allow_all_value_for_revoke_endpoint` (Boolean) Boolean value true allow all value for revoke endpoint.
- `allow_blank_values_in_discovery_response` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to allow blank values in discovery response.
- `allow_end_session_with_unmatched_sid` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to allow end session with unmatched SID.
- `allow_id_token_without_implicit_grant_type` (Boolean) Specifies if a token without implicit grant types is allowed.
- `allow_post_logout_redirect_without_validation` (Boolean) Allows post logout redirect without validation for End Session Endpoint.
- `allow_revoke_for_other_clients` (Boolean) Boolean value ture allow revoke for other clients.
- `allow_spontaneous_scopes` (Boolean) Specifies whether to allow spontaneous scopes.
- `archived_jwk_lifetime_in_seconds` (Number) The archived jwk lifetime in seconds.
- `archived_jwks_uri` (String) Archved URLs of the OP's JSON Web Key Set (JWK) document.
- `authentication_filters` (Block List) List of authentication filters. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--authentication_filters))
- `authentication_filters_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to enable user authentication filters.
- `authentication_protection_configuration` (Block List, Max: 1) Authentication Brute Force Protection Configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--authentication_protection_configuration))
- `authorization_challenge_default_acr` (String) Default ACR for authorization challenge.
- `authorization_challenge_endpoint` (String) The authorization challenge endpoint URL.
- `authorization_challenge_should_generate_session` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to generate session for authorization challenge.
- `authorization_code_lifetime` (Number) The lifetime of the Authorization Code.
- `authorization_encryption_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the authorization encryption algorithms supported.
- `authorization_encryption_enc_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the authorization encryption algorithms supported.
- `authorization_endpoint` (String) The authorization endpoint URL. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1/authorize
- `authorization_request_custom_allowed_parameters` (Block List) Authorization Request Custom Allowed Parameters. To avoid diverging state, those should be defined in alphabetical order. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--authorization_request_custom_allowed_parameters))
- `authorization_signing_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the authorization signing algorithms supported.
- `authorize_challenge_session_lifetime_in_seconds` (Number) The lifetime of the authorize challenge session in seconds.
- `backchannel_authentication_endpoint` (String) Backchannel Authentication Endpoint. Example: https://server.example.com/oxeleven/rest/backchannel/backchannelAuthenticationEndpoint()
- `backchannel_authentication_request_signing_alg_values_supported` (List of String) Backchannel Authentication Request Signing Alg Values Supported.
- `backchannel_authentication_response_expires_in` (Number) Backchannel Authentication Response Expires In.
- `backchannel_authentication_response_interval` (Number) Backchannel Authentication Response Interval.
- `backchannel_binding_message_pattern` (String) Backchannel Binding Message Pattern.
- `backchannel_client_id` (String) Backchannel Client Id.
- `backchannel_device_registration_endpoint` (String) Backchannel Device Registration Endpoint. Example: https://server.example.com/oxeleven/rest/backchannel/backchannelDeviceRegistrationEndpoint
- `backchannel_login_hint_claims` (List of String) Backchannel Login Hint Claims.
- `backchannel_redirect_uri` (String) Backchannel Redirect Uri. Example: https://server.example.com/oxeleven/rest/backchannel/backchannelRedirectUri
- `backchannel_requests_processor_job_chunk_size` (Number) Each backchannel request processor iteration fetches chunk of data to be processed.
- `backchannel_requests_processor_job_interval_sec` (Number) Specifies the allowable elapsed time in seconds backchannel request processor executes.
- `backchannel_token_delivery_modes_supported` (List of String) Backchannel Token Delivery Modes Supported.
- `backchannel_user_code_parameter_supported` (Boolean) Backchannel User Code Parameter Supported
- `base_endpoint` (String) The base URL for endpoints. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1
- `block_webview_authorization_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to block webview authorization.
- `change_session_id_on_authentication` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to change session_id on authentication.
- `check_session_iframe` (String) URL for an OP IFrame that supports cross-origin communications for session state information with the RP Client using the HTML5 postMessage API. Example: https://server.example.com/opiframe.htm
- `check_user_presence_on_refresh_token` (Boolean) Check whether user exists and is active before creating RefreshToken. Set it to true if check is needed (Default value is false - don't check.)
- `ciba_end_user_notification_config` (Block List, Max: 1) CIBA End User Notification Config. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ciba_end_user_notification_config))
- `ciba_grant_life_extra_time_sec` (Number) Specifies the CIBA Grant life extra time in seconds.
- `ciba_max_expiration_time_allowed_sec` (Number) Specifies the CIBA token expiration time in seconds.
- `claim_types_supported` (List of String) A list of the Claim Types that the OpenID Provider supports. One of 'normal'
- `claims_locales_supported` (List of String) Languages and scripts supported for values in Claims being returned. One of 'en'.
- `claims_parameter_supported` (Boolean) Specifies whether the OP supports use of the claim’s parameter.
- `client_authentication_filters` (Block List) List of client authentication filters. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--client_authentication_filters))
- `client_authentication_filters_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to enable client authentication filters.
- `client_black_list` (List of String) Black List for Client Redirection URIs.
- `client_info_endpoint` (String) The Client Info endpoint URL. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1/clientinfo
- `client_periodic_update_timer_interval` (Number) The time interval in seconds for the client periodic update timer.
- `client_reg_default_to_code_flow_with_refresh` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to add Authorization Code Flow with Refresh grant during client registration.
- `client_white_list` (List of String) White List for Client Redirection URIs.
- `configuration_update_interval` (Number) The interval for configuration update in seconds.
- `consent_gathering_script_backward_compatibility` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether turn on Consent Gathering Script backward compatibility mode. If true AS will pick up script with higher level globally. If false AS will pick up script based on client configuration.
- `cookie_domain` (String) Sets cookie domain for all cookies created by OP.
- `cors_configuration_filters` (Block List) CORS Configuration filters. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--cors_configuration_filters))
- `css_location` (String) The location for CSS files.
- `custom_headers_with_authorization_response` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to enable Custom Response Header parameter to return custom headers with the Authorization Response.
- `date_formatter_patterns` (Map of String) Data formatter patterns.
- `dcr_attestation_evidence_required` (Boolean) Boolean value indicating if DCR attestation evidence is required.
- `dcr_authorization_with_client_credentials` (Boolean) Boolean value indicating if DCR authorization to be performed using client credentials.
- `dcr_authorization_with_mtls` (Boolean) Boolean value indicating if DCR authorization allowed with MTLS.
- `dcr_forbid_expiration_time_in_request` (Boolean) Boolean value to specify if the expiration time should be forbidden in DCR request.
- `dcr_signature_validation_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value enables DCR signature validation. Default is false.
- `dcr_signature_validation_jwks` (String) Specifies JWKS for all DCR's validations.
- `dcr_signature_validation_jwks_uri` (String) Specifies JWKS URI for all DCR's validations.
- `dcr_signature_validation_shared_secret` (String) Specifies shared secret for Dynamic Client Registration.
- `dcr_signature_validation_software_statement_jwks_claim` (String) Specifies claim name inside software statement. Value of claim should point to inlined JWKS.
- `dcr_signature_validation_software_statement_jwks_uri_claim` (String) Specifies claim name inside software statement. Value of claim should point to JWKS URI.
- `dcr_ssa_validation_configs` (Block List) List of DCR SSA Validation Configs. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--dcr_ssa_validation_configs))
- `default_signature_algorithm` (String) The default signature algorithm to sign ID Tokens. One of "HS256", "HS384", "HS512", 
							"RS256", "RS384", "RS512", "ES256", "ES384", "ES512"
- `default_subject_type` (String) Default Subject Type used for Dynamic Client Registration. Valid types include pairwise and public.
- `device_authz_acr` (String) ACR used to process device authz requests.
- `device_authz_endpoint` (String) URL for the Device Authorization Endpoint. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1/device_authorization
- `device_authz_request_expires_in` (Number) Expiration time given for device authorization requests.
- `device_authz_response_type_to_process_authz` (String) Response type used to process device authz requests.
- `device_authz_token_poll_interval` (Number) Default interval returned to the client to process device token requests.
- `disable_authn_for_max_age_zero` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to disable authentication for max age zero.
- `disable_jdk_logger` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to enable JDK Loggers.
- `disable_prompt_consent` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to disable prompt consent.
- `disable_prompt_create` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to disable prompt create.
- `disable_prompt_login` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to disable prompt login.
- `disable_u2f_endpoint` (Boolean) Enable/Disable U2F endpoints.
- `discovery_allowed_keys` (List of String) List of configuration response claim allowed to be displayed in discovery endpoint. Example: authorization_endpoint, 
				token_endpoint, jwks_uri, scopes_supported, response_types_supported, response_modes_supported, etc..
- `discovery_cache_lifetime_in_minutes` (Number) Lifetime of discovery cache.
- `discovery_deny_keys` (List of String) List of configuration response claims which must not be displayed in discovery endpoint response. 
								Example: id_generation_endpoint, auth_level_mapping, etc.
- `display_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the display parameter values that the OpenID Provider supports. One of 'page', 'popup'.
- `dn_name` (String) DN of certificate issuer.
- `dpop_jkt_force_for_authorization_code` (Boolean) Demonstration of Proof-of-Possession (DPoP) JWK Thumbprint force for authorization code.
- `dpop_jti_cache_time` (Number) Demonstration of Proof-of-Possession (DPoP) cache time.
- `dpop_nonce_cache_time` (Number) Demonstration of Proof-of-Possession (DPoP) nonce cache time.
- `dpop_signing_alg_values_supported` (List of String) Demonstration of Proof-of-Possession (DPoP) authorization signing algorithms supported.
- `dpop_timeframe` (Number) Demonstration of Proof-of-Possession (DPoP) timeout.
- `dpop_use_nonce` (Boolean) Demonstration of Proof-of-Possession (DPoP) nonce usage.
- `dynamic_registration_allowed_password_grant_scopes` (List of String) List of grant scopes for dynamic registration.
- `dynamic_registration_custom_attributes` (List of String) Custom attributes for the Dynamic registration. One of 'jansTrustedClnt'.
- `dynamic_registration_custom_object_class` (String) LDAP custom object class for dynamic registration.
- `dynamic_registration_default_custom_attributes` (Map of String) Default custom attributes for the Dynamic registration.
- `dynamic_registration_expiration_time` (Number) Expiration time in seconds for clients created with dynamic registration, -1 means never expire. Example: -1
- `dynamic_registration_password_grant_type_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to enable Password Grant Type during Dynamic Registration.
- `dynamic_registration_persist_client_authorizations` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to persist client authorizations.
- `dynamic_registration_scopes_param_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to enable scopes parameter in dynamic registration.
- `enable_client_grant_type_update` (Boolean) Boolean value to specify if client can update Grant Type values.
- `enabled_oauth_audit_logging` (Boolean) enabled OAuth Audit Logging.
- `end_session_endpoint` (String) URL at the OP to which an RP can perform a redirect to request that the end user be logged out at the OP. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1/end_session
- `end_session_with_access_token` (Boolean) Accept access token to call end_session endpoint.
- `error_handling_method` (String) A list of possible error handling methods.
- `error_reason_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to return detailed reason of the error from AS..
- `expiration_notificator_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether expiration notificator is enabled (used to identify expiration for persistence that support TTL, like Couchbase).
- `expiration_notificator_interval_in_seconds` (Number) The expiration notificator interval in seconds. Example: 600
- `expiration_notificator_map_size_limit` (Number) The expiration notificator maximum size limit. Example: 100000
- `external_logger_configuration` (String) Path to external log4j2 logging configuration. Example: /identity/logviewer/configure
- `external_uri_white_list` (List of String) White List for external URIs.
- `fapi` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to enable FAPI.
- `fapi_compatibility` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether turn on FAPI compatibility mode. If true AS behaves in more strict mode.
- `feature_flags` (List of String) List of feature flags.
- `force_id_token_hint_presence` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether force id_token_hint parameter presence.
- `force_offline_access_scope_to_enable_refresh_token` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether force offline_access scope to enable refresh_token grant type.
- `force_ropc_in_authorization_endpoint` (Boolean) Specifies if ROPC is forced in authorization endpoint.
- `force_signed_request_object` (Boolean) Boolean value true indicates that signed request object is mandatory.
- `front_channel_logout_session_supported` (Boolean) Boolean value to specify support for front channel logout session.
- `grant_types_and_response_types_autofix_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to Grant types and Response types can be auto fixed.
- `grant_types_supported` (List of String) A list of the OAuth 2.0 Grant Type values that this OP supports. One of"none", "authorization_code", 
							"client_credentials", "implicit", "password", "refresh_token", "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:device_code", 
							"urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange", "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:uma-ticket", 
							"urn:openid:params:grant-type:ciba".
- `grant_types_supported_by_dynamic_registration` (List of String) List of the OAuth 2.0 Grant Type values that it's possible to set via client 
							registration API. One of 'none', 'authorization_code', 'implicit', 'password', 'client_credentials', 'refresh_token', 
							'urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:uma-ticket', 'urn:openid:params:grant-type:ciba', 'urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:device_code', 'tx_token'.
- `http_logging_enabled` (Boolean) Enable/Disable request/response logging filter.
- `http_logging_exclude_paths` (List of String) List of base URI for which request/response logging filter should not record activity. Example: "/auth/img", "/auth/stylesheet"
- `http_logging_response_body_content` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to log response body content.
- `id_generation_endpoint` (String) URL for the ID Generation Endpoint. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1/id
- `id_token_encryption_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWE encryption algorithms (alg values) supported by the OP 
							for the ID Token to encode the Claims in a JWT. One of "RSA1_5", "RSA-OAEP", "A128KW", "A256KW".
- `id_token_encryption_enc_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWE encryption algorithms (enc values) supported by the OP for 
							the ID Token to encode the Claims in a JWT. One of "A128CBC+HS256", "A256CBC+HS512", "A128GCM", "A256GCM".
- `id_token_filter_claims_based_on_access_token` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether idToken filters claims based on accessToken.
- `id_token_lifetime` (Number) The lifetime of the ID Token. Example: 3600
- `id_token_signing_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWS signing algorithms (alg values) supported by the OP for the ID 
							Token to encode the Claims in a JWT. One of "none", "HS256", "HS384", "HS512", "RS256", 
							"RS384", "RS512", "ES256", "ES384", "ES512", "PS256", "PS384", "PS512"
- `id_token_token_binding_cnf_values_supported` (List of String) Array containing a list of the JWT Confirmation Method member names supported by the OP for Token 
								Binding of ID Tokens. The presence of this parameter indicates that the OpenID Provider supports Token Binding of ID Tokens. 
								If omitted, the default is that the OpenID Provider does not support Token Binding of ID Tokens. One of 'tbh'.
- `img_location` (String) The location for image files.
- `include_sid_in_response` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to include sessionId in response.
- `introspection_access_token_must_have_introspection_scope` (Boolean) Reject introspection requests if access_token in Authorization header does not have introspection scope.
- `introspection_access_token_must_have_uma_protection_scope` (Boolean) Reject introspection requests if access_token in Authorization header does not have uma_protection scope.
- `introspection_encryption_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWE encryption algorithms (alg values) JWA supported by the introspection endpoint
- `introspection_encryption_enc_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWE encryption algorithms (alg values) JWA supported by the introspection endpoint
- `introspection_endpoint` (String) URL for the Introspection Endpoint. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1/introspection
- `introspection_response_scopes_backward_compatibility` (Boolean)
- `introspection_restrict_basic_authn_to_own_tokens` (Boolean) Specifies if basic authentication to be restricted to own tokens.
- `introspection_script_backward_compatibility` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether switch off client's introspection scripts (true value) and run all scripts that exists on server.
- `introspection_signing_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWS signing algorithms (alg values) JWA supported by the introspection endpoint
- `introspection_skip_authorization` (Boolean) Specifies if authorization to be skipped for introspection.
- `invalidate_session_cookies_after_authorization_flow` (Boolean) Boolean value to specify whether to invalidate 'session_id' and 'consent_session_id' cookies right after successful or unsuccessful authorization.
- `issuer` (String) URL using the https scheme that OP asserts as Issuer identifier. Example: https://server.example.com/
- `jans_id` (String) URL for the Inum generator Service. Example: https://server.example.com/oxid/service/jans/inum
- `jans_open_id_connect_version` (String) OpenID Connect Version. Example: openidconnect-1.0
- `jms_broker_uri_set` (List of String) JMS Broker URI Set.
- `jms_password` (String) JMS Password.
- `jms_user_name` (String) JMS UserName.
- `js_location` (String) The location for JavaScript files.
- `jwks_algorithms_supported` (List of String) A list of algorithms that will be used in JWKS endpoint. One of 'RS256', 'RS384', 'RS512', 
							'ES256', 'ES384", 'ES512', 'PS256', 'PS384', 'PS512', 'RSA1_5', 'RSA-OAEP'.
- `jwks_uri` (String) URL of the OP's JSON Web Key Set (JWK) document. This contains the signing key(s) the RP uses to validate signatures from the OP. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1/jwks
- `keep_authenticator_attributes_on_acr_change` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to keep authenticator attributes on ACR change.
- `key_algs_allowed_for_generation` (List of String) List of algorithm allowed to be used for key generation. Example: 'RS256', 'RS512', 'ES384', 'PS256'
- `key_regeneration_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to regenerate keys.
- `key_regeneration_interval` (Number) The interval for key regeneration in hours. Example: 48
- `key_selection_strategy` (String) Key Selection Strategy.
- `key_sign_with_same_key_but_diff_alg` (Boolean) Specifies if signing to be done with same key but apply different algorithms.
- `key_store_file` (String) The Key Store File (JKS). Example: /etc/certs/jans-auth-keys.jks
- `key_store_secret` (String) The password of the Key Store.
- `legacy_id_token_claims` (Boolean) Include Claims in ID Token.
- `lock_message_config` (Block List, Max: 1) Lock message configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--lock_message_config))
- `log_client_id_on_client_authentication` (Boolean) Boolean value to specify if application should log the Client ID on client authentication.
- `log_client_name_on_client_authentication` (Boolean) Boolean value to specify if application should log the Client Name on client authentication.
- `log_not_found_entity_as_error` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to log not found entity as error.
- `logging_layout` (String) Logging layout used for Jans Authorization Server loggers. - text - json
- `logging_level` (String) Logging level for jans-auth logger.
- `metric_reporter_interval` (Number) The interval for metric reporter in seconds.
- `metric_reporter_keep_data_days` (Number) The days to keep metric reported data.
- `mtls_authorization_challenge_endpoint` (String) URL for Mutual TLS Client Authentication and Certificate-Bound Access Tokens (MTLS) Challenge Endpoint.
- `mtls_authorization_endpoint` (String) URL for Mutual TLS Client Authentication and Certificate-Bound Access Tokens (MTLS) Endpoint.
							Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls'
- `mtls_check_session_iframe` (String) URL for MTLS IFrame that supports cross-origin communications for session state information with the RP 
							Client using the HTML5 postMessage API. Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls/opiframe.htm'
- `mtls_client_info_endpoint` (String) URL for MTLS Client Info endpoint. Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls/clientinfo'
- `mtls_device_authz_endpoint` (String) URL for MTLS Device Authorization endpoint. Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls/device_authorization'
- `mtls_end_session_endpoint` (String) URL for MTLS to which an RP can perform a redirect to request that the end user be logged out at the OP.
           		Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls/end_session'
- `mtls_id_generation_endpoint` (String) URL for MTLS Id generation endpoint. Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls/id'
- `mtls_introspection_endpoint` (String) URL for MTLS Introspection endpoint. Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls/introspection'
- `mtls_jwks_uri` (String) URL for MTLS of the OP\'s JSON Web Key Set (JWK) document. Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls/jwks'
- `mtls_par_endpoint` (String) URL for MTLS Pushed Authorisation Request (PAR) endpoint. Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls/par'
- `mtls_registration_endpoint` (String) URL for MTLS Registration endpoint. Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls/register'
- `mtls_token_endpoint` (String) URL for MTLS Authorization token Endpoint. Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls/token'
- `mtls_token_revocation_endpoint` (String) URL for MTLS Authorization token revocation endpoint. Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls/revoke'
- `mtls_user_info_endpoint` (String) URL for MTLS User Info endpoint. Example: 'https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/mtls/userinfo'
- `op_policy_uri` (String) URL that the OpenID Provider provides to the person registering the Client to read about the OP's requirements on how the 
								Relying Party can use the data provided by the OP. Example: http://ox.gluu.org/doku.php?id=jans:policy
- `op_tos_uri` (String) URL that the OpenID Provider provides to the person registering the Client to read about OpenID Provider's terms of 
								service. Example: http://ox.gluu.org/doku.php?id=jans:tos
- `openid_configuration_endpoint` (String) URL for the Open ID Connect Configuration Endpoint. Example: https://server.example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration
- `openid_discovery_endpoint` (String) URL of the OpenID Discovery Endpoint. Example: https://server.example.com/.well-known/webfinger
- `openid_scope_backward_compatibility` (Boolean) Set to false to only allow token endpoint request for openid scope with grant type equals to authorization_code, restrict access to userinfo to scope openid and only return id_token if scope contains openid.
- `openid_sub_attribute` (String) Specifies which LDAP attribute is used for the subject identifier claim. Example: inum
- `pairwise_calculation_key` (String) Key to calculate algorithmic pairwise IDs.
- `pairwise_calculation_salt` (String) Salt to calculate algorithmic pairwise IDs.
- `pairwise_id_type` (String) The pairwise ID type.
- `par_endpoint` (String) URL for Pushed Authorisation Request (PAR) Endpoint. Example: https://server.example.com/jans-auth/restv1/par
- `persist_id_token` (Boolean) Specifies whether to persist id_token (otherwise saves into cache).
- `persist_refresh_token` (Boolean) Specifies whether to persist refresh_token (otherwise saves into cache).
- `person_custom_object_class_list` (List of String) LDAP custom object class list for dynamic person enrolment. One of 'gluuCustomPerson', 'gluuPerson'.
- `public_subject_identifier_per_client_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether public subject identifier is allowed per client.
- `rate_limit_registration_period_in_seconds` (Number) The time period in seconds for the rate limit.
- `rate_limit_registration_request_count` (Number) The number of registration requests allowed per interval.
- `redirect_uris_regex_enabled` (Boolean) Enable/Disable redirect uris validation using regular expression.
- `refresh_token_extend_lifetime_on_rotation` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to extend refresh tokens on rotation.
- `refresh_token_lifetime` (Number) The lifetime of the Refresh Token.
- `registration_endpoint` (String) URL of the Registration Endpoint. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1/register
- `reject_end_session_if_id_token_expired` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to reject end session if id_token expired.
- `reject_jwt_with_none_alg` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether reject JWT requested or validated with algorithm None.
- `remove_refresh_tokens_for_client_on_logout` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to remove refresh tokens on logout.
- `request_object_encryption_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWE encryption algorithms (alg values) supported by the OP for Request Objects. 
							One of "RSA1_5", "RSA-OAEP", "A128KW", "A256KW".
- `request_object_encryption_enc_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWE encryption algorithms (enc values) supported by the OP for Request Objects.
							One of "A128CBC+HS256", "A256CBC+HS512", "A128GCM", "A256GCM".
- `request_object_signing_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWS signing algorithms (alg values) supported by the OP for Request Objects. One of "none",
							"HS256", "HS384", "HS512", "RS256", "RS384", "RS512", "ES256", "ES384", "ES512", "PS256", "PS384", "PS512".
- `request_parameter_supported` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether the OP supports use of the request parameter.
- `request_uri_block_list` (List of String) Block list for requestUri that can come to Authorization Endpoint (e.g. 'localhost')
- `request_uri_hash_verification_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether the OP supports use of the request_uri hash verification.
- `request_uri_parameter_supported` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether the OP supports use of the request_uri parameter.
- `require_par` (Boolean) Boolean value to indicate if Pushed Authorisation Request(PAR) is required
- `require_pkce` (Boolean) Boolean value true check for Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE).
- `require_request_object_encryption` (Boolean) Boolean value true encrypts request object
- `require_request_uri_registration` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether the OP requires any request_uri values used to be 
				pre-registered using the request_uris registration parameter.
- `response_modes_supported` (List of String) A list of the OAuth 2.0 Response Mode values that this OP supports. One of "query", 
							"fragment", "form_post", "query.jwt", "fragment.jwt", "form_post.jwt", "jwt".
- `response_types_supported` (List of List of String) A list of the OAuth 2.0 response_type values that this OP supports. One of "code", "token", "id_token".
- `return_client_secret_on_read` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether a client_secret is returned on client GET or PUT. False value means not to return secret.
- `return_device_secret_from_authz_endpoint` (Boolean) Boolean value to specify if the device secret should be returned by the authz endpoint.
- `rotate_client_registration_access_token_on_usage` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to rotate client registration access token on usage.
- `rotate_device_secret` (Boolean) Enable/Disable device secret rotation.
- `save_tokens_in_cache` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to save token in cache.
- `save_tokens_in_cache_and_dont_save_in_persistence` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to save token in cache and don't save in persistence.
- `sector_identifier_cache_lifetime_in_minutes` (Number) The cache lifetime in minutes of the sector identifier.
- `server_session_id_lifetime` (Number) The sessionId lifetime in seconds for sessionId. By default same as sessionIdLifetime.
- `service_documentation` (String) URL of a page containing human-readable information that developers might want or need to know 
							when using the OpenID Provider. Example: http://gluu.org/docs
- `session_id_cookie_lifetime` (Number) The lifetime of session id cookie in seconds. If 0 or -1 then expiration is not set. 'session_id' cookie expires when browser session ends.
- `session_id_lifetime` (Number) The lifetime of session id in seconds. If 0 or -1 then expiration is not set. 'session_id' cookie expires when browser session ends.
- `session_id_persist_in_cache` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to persist session_id in cache.
- `session_id_persist_on_prompt_none` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to persist session ID on prompt none.
- `session_id_request_parameter_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to enable session_id HTTP request parameter.
- `session_id_unauthenticated_unused_lifetime` (Number) The lifetime for unused unauthenticated session states.
- `session_id_unused_lifetime` (Number) The lifetime for unused session states.
- `share_subject_id_between_clients_with_same_sector_id` (Boolean) Share Subject ID between clients with same Sector ID.
- `skip_authentication_filter_options_method` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to skip authentication filter for options method calls.
- `skip_authorization_for_open_id_scope_and_pairwise_id` (Boolean) If a client has only openid scope and pairwise id, person should not have to authorize.
- `skip_refresh_token_during_refreshing` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to skip refreshing tokens on refreshing.
- `software_statement_validation_claim_name` (String) Validation claim name for software statement.
- `software_statement_validation_type` (String) Validation type used for software statement.
- `spontaneous_scope_lifetime` (Number) The lifetime of spontaneous scope in seconds.
- `ssa_configuration` (Block List, Max: 1) List of SSA Configurations. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--ssa_configuration))
- `stat_authorization_scope` (String) Scope required for Statistical Authorization.
- `stat_timer_interval_in_seconds` (Number) Statistical data capture time interval.
- `static_decryption_kid` (String) Specifies static decryption Kid
- `static_kid` (String) Specifies static Kid
- `status_list_bit_size` (Number) The size of status list bit.
- `status_list_index_allocation_block_size` (Number) The size of status list index allocation block.
- `status_list_response_jwt_lifetime` (Number) The lifetime of status list response JWT.
- `status_list_response_jwt_signature_algorithm` (String) The signature algorithm for status list response JWT.
- `subject_identifiers_per_client_supported` (List of String) A list of the subject identifiers supported per client.
- `subject_types_supported` (List of String) A list of the Subject Identifier types that this OP supports. Valid types include pairwise and public.
- `token_endpoint` (String) The token endpoint URL. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1/token
- `token_endpoint_auth_methods_supported` (List of String) A list of Client Authentication methods supported by this Token Endpoint.
- `token_endpoint_auth_signing_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWS signing algorithms (alg values) supported by the Token Endpoint for the signature 
							on the JWT used to authenticate the Client at the Token Endpoint for the private_key_jwt and client_secret_jwt 
							authentication methods. One of 'HS256', 'HS384', 'HS512', 'RS256", 'RS384', 'RS512', 'ES256', 'ES384', 'ES512', 'PS256', 'PS384', 'PS512'.
- `token_revocation_endpoint` (String) The URL for the access_token or refresh_token revocation endpoint. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1/revoke
- `trusted_client_enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether a client is trusted and no authorization is required.
- `trusted_ssa_issuers` (Block List) List of trusted SSA issuers. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--trusted_ssa_issuers))
- `tx_token_encryption_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWE encryption algorithms (alg values) supported by the Token Exchange endpoint.
- `tx_token_encryption_enc_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWE encryption algorithms (enc values) supported by the Token Exchange endpoint.
- `tx_token_lifetime` (Number) The lifetime of the Token Exchange Token.
- `tx_token_signing_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWS signing algorithms (alg values) supported by the Token Exchange endpoint.
- `ui_locales_supported` (List of String) Languages and scripts supported for the user interface. One of "en", "bg", "de", "es", "fr", "it", "ru", "tr".
- `uma_add_scopes_automatically` (Boolean) Add scopes automatically.
- `uma_configuration_endpoint` (String) URL for the UMA Configuration Endpoint. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1/uma2-configuration
- `uma_grant_access_if_no_policies` (Boolean) Specifies whether to grant access to resources if there are no any policies associated with scopes.
- `uma_pct_lifetime` (Number) UMA PCT lifetime.
- `uma_resource_lifetime` (Number) UMA Resource lifetime.
- `uma_restrict_resource_to_associated_client` (Boolean) Restrict access to resource by associated client.
- `uma_rpt_as_jwt` (Boolean) Issue RPT as JWT or as random string.
- `uma_rpt_lifetime` (Number) UMA RPT lifetime.
- `uma_ticket_lifetime` (Number) UMA Ticket lifetime.
- `uma_validate_claim_token` (Boolean) Validate claim_token as id_token assuming it is issued by local idp.
- `update_client_access_time` (Boolean) Boolean value to specify if application should update oxLastAccessTime/oxLastLogonTime attributes on client authentication.
- `update_user_last_logon_time` (Boolean) Boolean value to specify if application should update oxLastLogonTime attribute on user authentication.
- `use_highest_level_script_if_acr_script_not_found` (Boolean) Enable/Disable usage of highest level script in case ACR script does not exist.
- `use_local_cache` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to enable local in-memory cache.
- `use_nested_jwt_during_encryption` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to use nested Jwt during encryption.
- `use_openid_sub_attribute_value_for_pairwise_local_account_id` (Boolean) Use OpenID sub attribute value for Pairwise Local Account ID.
- `user_info_encryption_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWE encryption algorithms (alg values) JWA supported by the UserInfo 
							Endpoint to encode the Claims in a JWT. One of "RSA1_5", "RSA-OAEP", "A128KW", "A256KW"
- `user_info_encryption_enc_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWE encryption algorithms (enc values) JWA supported by the UserInfo Endpoint 
							to encode the Claims in a JWT. One of "A128CBC+HS256", "A256CBC+HS512", "A128GCM", "A256GCM".
- `user_info_lifetime` (Number) The lifetime of the User Info Token. Example: 3600
- `user_info_signing_alg_values_supported` (List of String) A list of the JWS signing algorithms (alg values) JWA supported by the UserInfo Endpoint to encode 
								the Claims in a JWT. One of "HS256", "HS384", "HS512", "RS256", "RS384", "RS512", "ES256", "ES384", 
								"ES512", "PS256", "PS384", "PS512".
- `userinfo_endpoint` (String) The User Info endpoint URL. Example: https://server.example.com/restv1/userinfo
- `web_keys_storage` (String) Web Key Storage Type.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--agama_configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `agama_configuration`

Optional:

- `crash_error_page` (String)
- `default_response_headers` (Map of String)
- `enabled` (Boolean)
- `finished_flow_page` (String)
- `interruption_error_page` (String)
- `max_items_logged_in_collections` (Number)
- `page_mismatch_error_page` (String)
- `root_dir` (String)
- `scripts_path` (String)
- `start_end_url_mapping` (Map of String)
- `templates_path` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--authentication_filters"></a>
### Nested Schema for `authentication_filters`

Required:

- `filter` (String)

Optional:

- `base_dn` (String)
- `bind` (Boolean)
- `bind_password_attribute` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--authentication_protection_configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `authentication_protection_configuration`

Optional:

- `attempt_expiration` (Number)
- `brute_force_protection_enabled` (Boolean)
- `delay_time` (Number)
- `maximum_allowed_attempts_without_delay` (Number)


<a id="nestedblock--authorization_request_custom_allowed_parameters"></a>
### Nested Schema for `authorization_request_custom_allowed_parameters`

Required:

- `param_name` (String)
- `return_in_response` (Boolean)


<a id="nestedblock--ciba_end_user_notification_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ciba_end_user_notification_config`

Optional:

- `api_key` (String)
- `app_id` (String)
- `auth_domain` (String)
- `database_url` (String)
- `messaging_sender_id` (String)
- `notification_key` (String)
- `notification_url` (String)
- `project_id` (String)
- `public_vapid_key` (String)
- `storage_bucket` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--client_authentication_filters"></a>
### Nested Schema for `client_authentication_filters`

Required:

- `filter` (String)

Optional:

- `base_dn` (String)
- `bind` (Boolean)
- `bind_password_attribute` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--cors_configuration_filters"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cors_configuration_filters`

Required:

- `cors_allowed_headers` (String)
- `cors_allowed_methods` (String)
- `cors_allowed_origins` (String)
- `filter_name` (String)

Optional:

- `cors_enabled` (Boolean)
- `cors_logging_enabled` (Boolean)
- `cors_preflight_max_age` (Number)
- `cors_request_decorate` (Boolean)
- `cors_support_credentials` (Boolean)


<a id="nestedblock--dcr_ssa_validation_configs"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dcr_ssa_validation_configs`

Required:

- `id` (String)

Optional:

- `allowed_claims` (List of String)
- `configuration_endpoint` (String)
- `configuration_endpoint_claim` (String)
- `description` (String)
- `display_name` (String)
- `issuers` (List of String)
- `jwks` (String)
- `jwks_uri` (String)
- `scopes` (List of String)
- `shared_secret` (String)
- `type` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--lock_message_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `lock_message_config`

Optional:

- `enable_id_token_messages` (Boolean) Boolean value specifying whether to enable ID Token messages.
- `id_token_messages_channel` (String) ID Token messages channel.


<a id="nestedblock--ssa_configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `ssa_configuration`

Optional:

- `ssa_custom_attributes` (List of String)
- `ssa_endpoint` (String)
- `ssa_expiration_in_days` (Number)
- `ssa_signing_alg` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--trusted_ssa_issuers"></a>
### Nested Schema for `trusted_ssa_issuers`

Optional:

- `automatically_granted_scopes` (List of String)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# The App configuration is a global resource that has to be
# imported, before it can be managed (it cannot be created 
# or deleted). You can choose any identifier for the import,
# or use 'global' as in the example below.
terraform import jans_app_configuration.global global
```
