---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "jans_cache_configuration Resource - terraform-provider-jans"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Resource for managing the cache configuration for the Janssen server. This resource cannot be created or delete, only imported and updated.
---

# jans_cache_configuration (Resource)

Resource for managing the cache configuration for the Janssen server. This resource cannot be created or delete, only imported and updated.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "jans_cache_configuration" "global" {
  cache_provider_type = "NATIVE_PERSISTENCE"
  
  in_memory_configuration {
    default_put_expiration = 60
  }

  memcached_configuration {
    buffer_size                = 0
    default_put_expiration     = 0
    max_operation_queue_length = 0
    servers                    = "localhost:11211"
  }

  native_persistence_configuration {
    default_cleanup_batch_size           = 1000
    default_put_expiration               = 60
    delete_expired_on_get_request        = false
    disable_attempt_update_before_insert = false
  }

  redis_configuration {
    connection_timeout     = 3000
    default_put_expiration = 60
    max_idle_connections   = 10
    max_retry_attempts     = 5
    max_total_connections  = 500
    redis_provider_type    = "STANDALONE"
    servers                = "localhost:6379"
    so_timeout             = 3000
    use_ssl                = false
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `cache_provider_type` (String) The cache Provider Type.
- `in_memory_configuration` (Block List, Max: 1) The redis configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--in_memory_configuration))
- `memcached_configuration` (Block List, Max: 1) The memcached configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--memcached_configuration))
- `native_persistence_configuration` (Block List, Max: 1) The redis configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--native_persistence_configuration))
- `redis_configuration` (Block List, Max: 1) The redis configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--redis_configuration))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--in_memory_configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `in_memory_configuration`

Optional:

- `default_put_expiration` (Number) defaultPutExpiration timeout value.


<a id="nestedblock--memcached_configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `memcached_configuration`

Optional:

- `buffer_size` (Number) Buffer Size.
- `connection_factory_type` (String) The MemcachedConnectionFactoryType Type.
- `default_put_expiration` (Number) Expiration timeout value.
- `max_operation_queue_length` (Number) Maximum operation Queue Length.
- `servers` (String) Server details separated by spaces.


<a id="nestedblock--native_persistence_configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `native_persistence_configuration`

Optional:

- `default_cleanup_batch_size` (Number) defaultCleanupBatchSize page size.
- `default_put_expiration` (Number) defaultPutExpiration timeout value.
- `delete_expired_on_get_request` (Boolean)
- `disable_attempt_update_before_insert` (Boolean)


<a id="nestedblock--redis_configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `redis_configuration`

Optional:

- `connection_timeout` (Number) Connection time out.
- `default_put_expiration` (Number) defaultPutExpiration timeout value.
- `max_idle_connections` (Number) The cap on the number of \idle\ instances in the pool. If max idle is set too low on heavily 
						loaded systems it is possible you will see objects being destroyed and almost immediately new objects 
						being created. This is a result of the active threads momentarily returning objects faster than they 
						are requesting them causing the number of idle objects to rise above max idle. The best value for max 
						idle for heavily loaded system will vary but the default is a good starting point.
- `max_retry_attempts` (Number) Maximum retry attempts in case of failure.
- `max_total_connections` (Number) The number of maximum connection instances in the pool.
- `password` (String) Redis password.
- `redis_provider_type` (String) Type of connection.
- `sentinel_master_group_name` (String) Sentinel Master Group Name (required if SENTINEL type of connection is selected).
- `servers` (String) server details separated by comma e.g. 'server1:8080server2:8081'.
- `so_timeout` (Number) With this option set to a non-zero timeout a read() call on the InputStream associated 
						with this Socket will block for only this amount of time. If the timeout expires a 
						java.net.SocketTimeoutException is raised though the Socket is still valid. The option must be 
						enabled prior to entering the blocking operation to have effect. The timeout must be > 0. A timeout 
						of zero is interpreted as an infinite timeout.
- `ssl_trust_store_file_path` (String) Directory Path to Trust Store.
- `use_ssl` (Boolean) Enable SSL communication between Gluu Server and Redis cache.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# The cache configuration is a global resource that has to be
# imported, before it can be managed (it cannot be created 
# or deleted). You can choose any identifier for the import,
# or use 'global' as in the example below.
terraform import jans_cache_configuration.global global
```
