---
page_title: "jans_ldap_database_configuration Resource - jans"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Resource for managing LDAP database configuration in the Janssen Server.
---

# jans_ldap_database_configuration (Resource)

Resource for managing LDAP database configuration in the Janssen Server.
This resource allows you to configure external LDAP servers for user authentication and data storage.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "jans_ldap_database_configuration" "example" {
  config_id         = "auth_ldap_server"
  local_primary_key = "uid"
  primary_key       = "uid"
  max_connections   = 200
  servers           = ["ldap.example.com:1636"]
  use_ssl           = true
  bind_dn           = "cn=directory manager"
  bind_password     = "your-secure-password"
  base_dns          = ["ou=people,o=jans"]

  lifecycle {
    ignore_changes = [bind_password]
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `base_dns` (List of String) List contains the location of the Active Directory/LDAP tree from where the Gluu Server shall read the user information.
- `bind_dn` (String) This contains the username to connect to the backend server. You need to use full DN here. As for example, cn=jans,dc=company,dc=org.
- `bind_password` (String) Ldap password for binding.
- `config_id` (String) Unique identifier - Name Example: auth_ldap_server
- `local_primary_key` (String) Used to search local user entry in Gluu Server's internal LDAP directory. Example: uid, email
- `max_connections` (Number) This value defines the maximum number of connections that are allowed to read the backend Active Directory/LDAP server.
- `primary_key` (String) Used to search and bind operations in configured LDAP server. Example: SAMAccountName,uid, email
- `servers` (List of String) List of LDAP authentication servers.
- `use_ssl` (Boolean) Enable SSL communication between Jans Server and LDAP server.

### Optional

- `enabled` (Boolean) Boolean value used to indicate if the LDAP Server is enabled. Do not use this unless the server administrator has entered all the required values.
- `level` (Number) A string that indicates the level.
- `use_anonymous_bind` (Boolean) Boolean value used to indicate if the LDAP Server will allow anonymous bind request.
- `version` (Number) LDAP server version.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
