jans-fido2/README.md, before:

# Fido2

[FIDO 2.0 (FIDO2)](https://fidoalliance.org/fido2/) is an open authentication 
standard that enables leveraging common devices to authenticate to online services 
in both mobile and desktop environments.

FIDO2 comprises the [W3C’s Web Authentication specification (WebAuthn)](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/) 
and FIDO’s corresponding [Client-to-Authenticator Protocol (CTAP)](https://fidoalliance.org/specs/fido-v2.0-ps-20170927/fido-client-to-authenticator-protocol-v2.0-ps-20170927.html). WebAuthn defines a standard web API 
that can be built into browsers and related web platform infrastructure to enable 
online services to use FIDO Authentication. CTAP enables external devices such as 
mobile handsets or FIDO Security Keys to work with WebAuthn and serve as 
authenticators to desktop applications and web services.

Janssen includes a FIDO2 component to implement a two-step, two-factor 
authentication (2FA) with username / password as the first step, and any FIDO2 
device as the second step. 

During Janssen installation, the administrator will have the option to also install 
the FIDO2 component.

Commit message:

fix(jans-fido2) : #10860 role of the FIDO server
Short description of the role of the FIDO server as a Janssen component 

Signed-off-by: Madhumita Subramaniam <madhu@gluu.org>

jans-fido2/README.md, after:

# Fido2

[FIDO 2.0 (FIDO2)](https://fidoalliance.org/fido2/) is an open authentication 
standard that enables leveraging common devices to authenticate to online services 
in both mobile and desktop environments.

Janssen includes a FIDO2 component (or FIDO server) to provide the following infrastructure:
- **Secure authentication** using public-key cryptography, eliminating the need for passwords.
- **Cross-platform authentication** across different devices and platforms that support the FIDO standard.
- Management of the **registration process of passkeys**, where public keys are registered and stored.
- Management of the **authentication process of passkeys**, verifying user identity through challenges and responses.
- **Trusted repository for public keys** used in the authentication process, ensuring secure, private, and passwordless authentication.

During Janssen installation, the administrator will install the FIDO2 component in order to enable passkeys as an authentication mechanism.
