---
tags:
  - administration
  - planning
  - IAG
  - Identity Governance
---

Janssen is not a governance platform, so it does not do any of the following:

## Role Management

Role Based Access Control (RBAC) is a strategy used by many organizations to
authorize access to resources. However, RBAC has a dark side: if roles are used
to reference each unique access requirement the number of roles can grow
exponentially. In fact, some organizations have more roles than people! This is
known as "role explosion." Role Management is an enterprise
workforce governance practice which correlates roles across all applications to
reduce their number to the lowest common denominator of "enterprise roles".

## Access Certification

The role request and approval processes tend to result in a person accumulating
many roles over time. However, because removal of roles no-longer-needed is often
overlooked, it's important for organizations to regularly perform access
certification campaigns (i.e. "recertification" or "attestation"). For example,
once per year, managers may need to decide if the roles assigned to subordinate
employees are still needed.

Removal of a non-sensitive role is not an urgent matter. However, certain
situations might require faster action, for example if an employee is moved to a
different organizational unit with a different manager. The new manager assumes
responsibility for the employee's roles, and should execute an ad-hoc
recertification process for that specific user.

## Segregation of Duties

Sometimes an organization should prevent a person from having two roles
simultaneously. For example, there could be an account rule that a person can't
both sign and approve checks. Or a person can't perform both financial advisory
and equity trading. The governance platform may enable organizations to define
these Segregation of Duties to prevent such conflicts of interest.
