---
tags:
  - administration
---

# Overview

# Administration

Welcome Admins! This collection of guides will help you deploy, configure
and operate Janssen software. Use the left navigation to dig deeper into
each specific area.

* **Deployment and Planning Guide**  High level design concepts and architecture.

* **Installation** Howto's for VM and cloud native deployment

* **Kubernetes Operation Guide** Day-to-day administration for cloud native

* **VM Operation Guide** Day-to-day administration if you installed a SUSE,
Red Hat, or Ubuntu linux package.

* **Configuration Guide** How to use the various configuration tools: command
line, `curl`, or the text user interface ("TUI").

* **Auth Server Admin Guide** How to configure OpenID, OAuth, authentication
workflows, and other core functional digital identity features.

* **Developer Guide** How to write code to customize the Janssen, and
introducing Agama, a programming language for web authentication flows.

* **Reference Guide** Autogenerated content like JSON properties, OpenAPI docs,
database schemas, javadocs.

* **Jans Eleven Admin Guide** Only needed if you use an HSM to store the private
keys of the OpenID Provider.

* **FIDO Admin Guide** Operational and functional info for the FIDO service.

* **SCIM Admin Guide** Operational and functional info for the SCIM service.

* **Integration Guide** A collection of docs about configuring third party
software and SaaS providers.

* **Config API Admin Guide** This required component is used by all
configuration tools to write Janssen software configuration to the database.

* **Janssen Recipes** Howto's about various frequently asked topics

* **Upgrade Guide** Getting to the latest version of Janssen.

* **Script Catalog** Examples of doing useful stuff with the various Janssen
interception scripts.

---

!!! Contribute
If you’d like to contribute to this document, get started with the [Contribution Guide](https://docs.jans.io/head/CONTRIBUTING/#contributing-to-the-documentation)
