---
tags:
  - administration
  - auth-server
  - openidc
  - feature
  - subject identifier
---

# Subject identifiers

Subject identifiers(defined in 
[OpenID Connect Core SPEC](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#Terminology)) are unique identifiers 
generated by Janssen Server(i.e. OpenId Provider) for an end-user. Subject identifiers are unique per Janssen Server 
instance and it is shared with the client (or clients) via ID token or access token. Whether the same subject identifier
is used for same end-user across multiple clients depends on the kind of subject identifier configured for a particular
client.

## Types of Subject Identifiers

Janssen Server supports both subject identifier types, `public` and `pairwise`, as specidifed in OpenID Connect 
specification. For a particular Janssen Server deployment, the supported types are listed in the response of Janssen 
Server's well-known configuration endpoint given below.

```
https://janssen.server.host/jans-auth/.well-known/openid-configuration
```

The `subject_types_supported` claim in the response specifies the list of all the supported types. 

More details about both types are given in 
[this section](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#SubjectIDTypes) of specification.

## Public Subject Identifiers

Public subject identifiers are identifiers that server generates and assigns to each subject. These identifiers are 
unique for each server deployment. All the clients that are configured to use `public` type subject identifier will 
be supplied this same identifier for a given subject by the Janssen Server. 

Sharing common subject identifiers across multiple clients may enable clients to correlate data about a particular
subject. If this is an unwanted situation, then the client should use `pairwise` subject identifiers.

By default, the Janssen Server uses subject attribute `inum` as subject identifier.

### Customizing Subject Identifier Attribute

At server level, the administrator specifiy which subject attribute should be used as subject identifiers.
This can be done by updating the value of 
[openidSubAttribute](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#openidsubattribute) 
Janssen Server property.

At client level, this can be further customized. If a client uses `public` type subject identifier, the client can 
configure the subject attribute that should be used as subject identifier. This should be done at client registration
time.

To enable client level customization, Janssen Server property 
[publicSubjectIdentifierPerClientEnabled](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#publicsubjectidentifierperclientenabled)
should be set to `true` and also the desired attribute should be part of the list
defined by Janssen Server property 
[subjectIdentifiersPerClientSupported](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#subjectidentifiersperclientsupported).
Both these properties can be set by administrator using [TUI](../../config-guide/jans-tui/README.md)


## Pairwise Subject Identifiers

### Configuring Sector Identifiers

### Calculation Method for Pairwise Subject Identifiers

## Receiving Subject Identifiers

### As Part Of ID Tokens

### As Part Of Access Tokens

## Properties


openidSubAttribute - is where the client can specify what should be the ldap attribute to store subject identifiers (applies to only `public`)
publicSubjectIdentifierPerClientEnabled - client can use `openidSubAttribute` only if this flag is enabled
subjectIdentifiersPerClientSupported - find out more about this. Why is this a list? Will it not be very similar to pairwise? 

skipauthorization
pairwiseIdType/key/salt



- are they encrypted?
- Are they sent as part of id-token and access token?
- find out more about this : Similarly, in access tokens, for a given end-user the sub will differ for each resource server, identified by the token's audience.

## Want to contribute?

If you have content you'd like to contribute to this page in the meantime, you can get started with our [Contribution guide](https://docs.jans.io/head/CONTRIBUTING/).
