docs/admin/auth-server/endpoints/userinfo.md, before:

---
tags:
  - administration
  - auth-server
  - userinfo
  - endpoint
---

# Overview

Userinfo endpoint is an OAuth2 protected endpoint that is used to retrieve claims about an authenticated end-user.
Userinfo endpoint is defined in the [OpenID Connect specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#UserInfo).

URL to access userinfo endpoint on Janssen Server is listed in the response of Janssen Server's well-known 
[configuration endpoint](./configuration.md) given below. 

```text
https://<jans-server-host>/jans-auth/.well-known/openid-configuration
```

`userinfo_endpoint` claim in the response specifies the URL for userinfo endpoint. By default, userinfo endpoint looks
like below:

```
https://janssen.server.host/jans-auth/restv1/userinfo
```

In response to a valid request, the userinfo endpoint returns user information in JSON format similar to below: 

TODO: add sample response

Since userinfo endpoint is an OAuth2 protected resource, a valid access token with appropriate scope is required to 
access the endpoint. More information about request and response of the userinfo endpoint can be found in 
the OpenAPI specification of [jans-auth-server module](https://gluu.org/swagger-ui/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JanssenProject/jans/replace-janssen-version/jans-auth-server/docs/swagger.yaml#/User_Info).

## Disabling The Endpoint Using Feature Flag

Using [USERINFO feature flag](../../reference/json/feature-flags/janssenauthserver-feature-flags.md#userinfo)

TODO: add documentation on how to set-unset feature flags

## Configuration Properties

Userinfo endpoint can be further configured using Janssen Server configuration properties listed below. [Set property 
values](link to CURL command that will be used to set properties) according to your need. 

TODO: add documentation about how to set properties
TODO: Add better description to properties

- [mtlsUserInfoEndpoint](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#mtlsuserinfoendpoint)
- [userInfoConfiguration](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#userinfoconfiguration)
- [userInfoEncryptionAlgValuesSupported](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#userinfoencryptionalgvaluessupported)
- [userInfoEncryptionEncValuesSupported](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#userinfoencryptionencvaluessupported)
- [userInfoEndpoint](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#userinfoendpoint)
- [userInfoSigningAlgValuesSupported](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#userinfosigningalgvaluessupported)

## Interception Scripts

Response from userinfo can be further customized using [dynamic scope](../../developer/scripts/dynamic-scope.md) interception script. 

## Want to contribute?

If you have content you'd like to contribute to this page in the meantime, you can get started with our [Contribution guide](https://docs.jans.io/head/CONTRIBUTING/).

Commit message:

docs: add scope-claim mapping

docs/admin/auth-server/endpoints/userinfo.md, after:

---
tags:
  - administration
  - auth-server
  - userinfo
  - endpoint
---

# Overview

Userinfo endpoint is an OAuth2 protected endpoint that is used to retrieve claims about an authenticated end-user.
Userinfo endpoint is defined in the [OpenID Connect specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#UserInfo).

URL to access userinfo endpoint on Janssen Server is listed in the response of Janssen Server's well-known 
[configuration endpoint](./configuration.md) given below. 

```text
https://<jans-server-host>/jans-auth/.well-known/openid-configuration
```

`userinfo_endpoint` claim in the response specifies the URL for userinfo endpoint. By default, userinfo endpoint looks
like below:

```
https://janssen.server.host/jans-auth/restv1/userinfo
```

In response to a valid request, the userinfo endpoint returns user information in JSON format similar to below: 

TODO: add sample response

Since userinfo endpoint is an OAuth2 protected resource, a valid access token with appropriate scope is required to 
access the endpoint. More information about request and response of the userinfo endpoint can be found in 
the OpenAPI specification of [jans-auth-server module](https://gluu.org/swagger-ui/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JanssenProject/jans/replace-janssen-version/jans-auth-server/docs/swagger.yaml#/User_Info).



## Disabling The Endpoint Using Feature Flag

Using [USERINFO feature flag](../../reference/json/feature-flags/janssenauthserver-feature-flags.md#userinfo)

TODO: add documentation on how to set-unset feature flags

## Configuration Properties

Userinfo endpoint can be further configured using Janssen Server configuration properties listed below. [Set property 
values](link to CURL command that will be used to set properties) according to your need. 

TODO: add documentation about how to set properties
TODO: Add better description to properties

- [mtlsUserInfoEndpoint](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#mtlsuserinfoendpoint)
- [userInfoConfiguration](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#userinfoconfiguration)
- [userInfoEncryptionAlgValuesSupported](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#userinfoencryptionalgvaluessupported)
- [userInfoEncryptionEncValuesSupported](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#userinfoencryptionencvaluessupported)
- [userInfoEndpoint](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#userinfoendpoint)
- [userInfoSigningAlgValuesSupported](../../reference/json/properties/janssenauthserver-properties.md#userinfosigningalgvaluessupported)

## Using Scopes To Control Claim Release

In context of OpenID Connect specification, claim information released by userinfo endpoint can be controlled using 
scopes. Janssen Server supports all [standard scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#ScopeClaims)
and releases corresponding claims as per OpenID Connect specification. Administrator can customise standard scopes and 
define claims to be linked to each standard scope.

In addition to standard scopes, Janssen server allows defining [custom scopes](TODO: how to define custom scopes and link claims) 
which can be associated to user-defined list of claims. This allows administrators to create custom groupings of claims.

## Interception Scripts

Response from userinfo can be further customized using [dynamic scope](../../developer/scripts/dynamic-scope.md) interception script. 

## Want to contribute?

If you have content you'd like to contribute to this page in the meantime, you can get started with our [Contribution guide](https://docs.jans.io/head/CONTRIBUTING/).
